[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: Now it's time that
we have a talk about will-change.
I've heard will-change come
up a bit in the chat room.
It's important for us to cover this.
Will-change, ostensibly,
is a CSS property that lets us give
the browser a little heads up as to what
other CSS properties we might
possibly be animating in the future.
This lets the browser go, aha, and
it goes out there and makes some little,
I don't know, tweaks, to how it's going
to be handling those properties, so
that it can give us the best performance.
Used to be that we would do this
using something called the hardware
acceleration.
And now what this does,
this is the translateZ hack.
And the translateZ hack is where chrome
had this lovely feature, still probably
has this feature, where it would take
3D transforms and put them on the GPU.
So you would be getting these animations
off the CPU where the JavaScript
threat is and all this other stuff
is going on, you put it on the GPU
where it was all alone and happy and could
be taken care of all by its little self.
Unless you were putting
everything on the GPU,
in which case it could get pretty crowded
in there and your phone might crash.
So this is why people would
add this translateZ thing,
it's kind of a magical number.
TranslateZ(0) is actually a way of saying,
I'm going to transform this into 3D plane,
but you don't actually.
So it was a way of tricking the browser
into kicking things over to the GPU.
And sometimes, if it was used willy-nilly,
it could actually cause
more harm than good.
So if you're thinking about
using something like this,
you probably shouldn't be.
Magic fixes do not age well.
When you have people coming in to maintain
your code, they'll be like, what is this,
I better not touch it,
it might break something.
So you can end up carrying all
these not necessarily performant
magical fixes with you for a long time.
It creates technical debt.
So this is not how we like to do things.
Hacks are not future friendly,
they just make you think that
you're getting a good deal.
So Chrome introduced
will-change in hopes that
they could prevent people from
doing this sort of thing.
The idea is that will-change,
what you do here,
you're supposed to use will-change just
before you're going to animate something.
This creates an interesting
set of problems.
You think, well all right, I'm gonna
be using a transform on this thing
in the future sometime, so
I'll just will-change all the transforms.
Well, you could do that.
But it would be even more performant if
you could do a just in time will-change
on that transform.
Say when somebody is hovering over
something that if they click it,
it will be transformed, then you could
add the will-change just to that thing or
maybe only if that thing is in view.
So if you're using will-change,
you'll also probably,
to use it most effectively,
going to be doing a lot of event-sniffing
to figure out when people are getting
close to making that change.
It sounds a lot like doing
the browser's work for it.
And that is one of
the complaints I have heard.
That this is really just something that
supports Chrome's, how shall I put this,
Chrome's lack of focus on animation
in its development processes.
Because there are browsers that claim
that they do not need will-change,
Edge is one of them.
I have heard an Edge developer on
the Internet say that Edge will never have
will-change, because will-change is not
necessary for Edge's performance pipeline.
So that gets into this thing,
different browsers have
different rendering processes, and
some of them might not need this at all.
So what is will-change but
a magic number for Chrome?
>> Rachel Nabors: [LAUGH] So
if you are gonna use will-change,
which I would say is the more sanctioned
version of the translateZ hack, as
at least you're letting the browser decide
when it wants to put things on the GPU or
whatever it's going to do.
So don't slap it on everything.
If you slap will-change on everything,
you are optimizing nothing.
And let's take a look
at this browser spread.
At Caniuse.com,
you'll see that will-change is rather well
supported by Firefox, Chrome,
Safari, and Opera even, my God.
But, iOS Safari, Opera Mini and
Internet Explorer totally not buying
into the will-change movement.
And I've all ready given
you the reasons for
why those browsers might be recalcitrant
about adopting will-change.